>> Stephen: HEY, EVERYBODY,
WE'RE BACK WITH DR. SANJAY
GUPTA.
LET'S TALK ABOUT YOU MENTIONED
THAT, YOU KNOW, IF YOU ARE
EXPOSED TO THIS, YOU MIGHT BE
TESTED AND, YOU KNOW, FIND OUT
THAT YOU HAVE BEEN EXPOSED AND
THEN PEOPLE THAT YOU EXPOSED
HAVE TO BE QUARANTINED, HOW DO
YOU GET TESTED?
>> UM --
>> Stephen: HAVE YOU BEEN
TESTED?
>> I HAVE NOT BEEN TESTED.
I DON'T THINK EVERYONE NEEDS TO
GET TESTED.
I THINK DOCTORS NEED TO MAKE
GOOD JUDGMENT HERE.
I DON'T THINK YOU WANT TO CAUSE
PANIC BY SAYING EVERYONE SHOULD
GET TESTED.
THERE ARE 350 MILLION PEOPLE.
>> Stephen: THE PRESIDENT HAS
SAID, LAST WEEK, THAT THERE ARE
TESTS OUT THERE FOR EVERYONE,
PRESENTLY TESTS FOR EVERYONE,
THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL TESTS, GREAT
TESTS, EVERYONE WHO WANTS A TEST
CAN GET ONE TODAY, AS OF
YESTERDAY, HE SAID.
IS THAT TRUE OR FALSE, SANJAY
GUPTA?
>> IT'S FALSE.
>> Stephen: OKAY.
AND IT'S SAD BECAUSE THERE
ARE SO MANY THINGS THAT WORK SO
WELL WITH OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE HEALTHCARE
SYSTEM.
THERE ARE SO MANY THINGS THAT
WORK.
WE FAIL WITH REGARD TO TESTING
IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> Stephen: WHY, THOUGH?
WE DO HAVE EXCELLENT MEDICAL
PROFESSIONALS AND FANTASTIC
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY IN THE UNITED
STATES, WHY DON'T WE HAVE A TEST
AND WHY DID WE REFUSE THE GERMAN
TEST?
>> WELL, WITH REGARD TO THAT
SECOND QUESTION, I THINK THAT'S
A REALLY INTERESTING THING.
WE GET VERY PROVINCIAL IN THE
UNITED STATES, IF IT'S NOT
STAMPED WITH A MADE IN AMERICA
SIGN, WE TEND TO THINK OF OTHER
THINGS AS INFERIOR.
THINGS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES, WE
AUAUTOMATICALLY THINK THEY'RE NO
GOING TO MEET OUR STANDARDS.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
THOSE TESTS WERE GOOD AND GOT
OUT THERE --
>> Stephen: IS THAT THE TEST
THAT'S USED IN OTHER PARTS TO
HAVE THE WORLD?
>> THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
ADOPTED IT AND IT GOT USED IN
MANY COUNTRIES.
THEY'RE USING IT IN MANY
COUNTRIES IN EUROPE.
>> Stephen: IS THERE GOING TO
BE A TEST SOON THAT CAN BE MASS
PRODUCED IN THE UNITED STATES?
>> YES, THERE IS A TEST, AND
THERE HAS BEEN A TEST, BUT THEY
TRIED TO SCALE IT UP AND SEND IT
OUT TO ALL THE PLACES.
THE INITIAL TEST WAS FLAWED, IT
DIDN'T WORK.
THEY COULDN'T COUNT ON IT GIVING
CONCLUSIVE RESULTS.
THEY PULLED EVERYTHING BACK AND
SAID WE'RE GOING TO DO
EVERYTHING OUT TO HAVE THE
C.D.C.
WHAT'S STRIKING, THIS WEEK, IF
YOU GO TO THE C.D.C.'S
WEB SITE -- AND WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THIS FOR SIX
WEEKS, I FEEL LIKE I HAVE BEEN
SCREAMING INTO THE ABYSS, AND,
FRANKLY, YOU GET A LOT OF
PUSHBACK ON SOCIAL MEDIA SAYING
YOU'RE FEAR MONGERING, WHY ARE
YOU BEING SO CRITICAL, AND EVEN
IF YOU GO TO THE C.D.C.'S
WEB SITE NOW, ZERO TESTS BY THE
C.D.C. ON SOME DAYS THIS WEEK,
EIGHT TESTS BY THE PUBLIC HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS.
EIGHT.
NOT 8,000 OR 8 MILLION, EIGHT
TESTS TOTE BILL OUR PUBLIC OUR P
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM.
>> Stephen: AND HOW MANY IN
SOUTH KOREA?
>> SOUTH KOREA WAS DOING 10,000
A DAY FOR A PERIOD OF TIME.
WE DON'T HAVE EYES ON THIS
THING.
IT'S ALWAYS DESCRIBED IN HUNTING
MMETAPHORS, BUT WE DON'T HAVE
EYES ON THIS.
EVEN THE NUMBERS TODAY WHICH
HAVE GONE UP SIGNIFICANTLY SINCE
LAST WEEK, WHEN THERE WERE 15
CASES, NOW THERE ARE MORE THAN
1,000 CASES.
I THINK THAT'S A GROSS
UNDERESTIMATE OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE.
>> Stephen: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE ADDRESS THE PRESIDENT GAVE
TO THE COUNTRY LAST NIGHT.
PRESIDENTS RARELY SPEAK FROM THE
OVAL OFFICE, ONLY TIMES USUALLY
OF CRISIS.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: LAST NIGHT, THE
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCE ADD EUROPEAN
TRAVEL BAN.
EUROPEAN LEADERS WERE CAUGHT
FLAT-FOOTED.
THEY WERE NOT GIVEN A HEADS UP.
THEY DENOUNCED IT, AND GLOBAL
STOCKS PLUNGED OVERNIGHT.
IS THERE VALUE TO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT PROPOSED?
OR IS IT THE BARN DOOR IS SHUT?
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT METAPHOR
IS APPROPRIATE HERE, STEPHEN.
I MEAN, PEOPLE WILL SAY, WHAT
ABOUT THE TRAVEL BAN ON CHINA
BACK IN JANUARY?
YOU REMEMBER, 195 AMERICANS
BROUGHT IN BY THAT FLIGHT AND
THEN PUT IN QUARANTINE AT THAT
AIR FORCE BASE, HUGE MOVE.
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED IN 60 YEARS
IN THIS COUNTRY.
LAST TIME THAT HAPPENED WAS
SMALLPOX.
IT WAS A BIG DECISION TO DO
THIS.
THE PROBLEM NOW IS THAT THERE'S
A LOT OF CASES OF CORONAVIRUS IN
THIS COUNTRY, AND THEY ARE
SPREADING IN COMMUNITIES.
SO YOU REALLY HAVE TO JUSTIFY
WWHY YOU WOULD DO A TRAVEL BAN
FROM COUNTRIES THAT MAY HAVE A
SIMILAR NUMBER OF CORONAVIRUS AS
WE DO AND WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
CASES WE HAVE BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T
BEEN TESTING.
>> Stephen: AS A MEDICAL
PROFESSIONAL, HAVE YOU HEARD
FROM THE ADMINISTRATION A
RATIONALE AS TO WHY CONTINENTAL
EUROPE MAY BE CUT OFF BUT THE
U.K. IS NOT OR SOUTH KOREA WAS
NOT?
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THEY DID HAVE
THESE LEVEL THREE RESTRICTIONS
IN SOUTH KOREA, SO THEY HAD SOME
NON-ESSENTIAL TRAVEL AND THINGS
LIKE THAT, BUT, NO, IT DIDN'T
MAKE A LOT OF SENSE, ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
LITTLE STRAND OF RNA THAT
DOESN'T RESPECT BORDERS OR
BOUNDARIES, IT TRAVELS FREELY
ALL AROUND THESE PLACES.
SO THE FACT YOU COULD ASH
ARBITRARILY SAY THIS -- AND
CHINA IS SAYING WE DON'T WANT
PEOPLE FROM OTHER COUNTRIES COME
TOGETHERROUS BECAUSE WE'VE GOT
IT UNDER CONTROL.
>> Stephen: THEY BELIEVE
THEY'RE PAST THE PEAK OF THE
EPIDEMIC.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Stephen: WHAT CAN WE LEARN
FROM THE CHINESE?
>> CHINA WAS VERY HEAVY HANDED.
THEY WERE SLOW COMING OUT TO
HAVE THE GATE IN NOVEMBER AND
DECEMBER, BUT VERY HEAVY-HANDED.
THEY BASICALLY HAD THE LARGEST
QUARANTINE EVER RECORDED IN THE
HISTORY OF THE WORLD, 60 MILLION
PEOPLE UNDER QUARANTINE OVER
THERE, NOT LETTING PEOPLE IN OR
OUT, REALLY TRYING TO CONTAIN
THIS VIRUS.
THAT'S CONTAINMENT, WHICH IS
DIFFERENT THAN MITIGATION, WHICH
IS JUST SLOWING THE SPREAD OF
IT.
CONTAINMENT WAS THE NAME OF THE
GAME OVER THERE, SOMETHING THAT
COULD HAPPEN IN CHINA, AND I
THINK YOU SAW THE --
>> Stephen: CAN IT HAPPEN IN
THE UNITED STATES?
WUHAN WAS THE FIRST PLACE THEY
CONTAINED AND THE AREA AROUND
IT.
THAT CITY ITSELF IS 11 MILLION
PEOPLE.
>> RIGHT, SMALL CHINESE CITY.
>> Stephen: EXACTLY, A SMALL
CHINESE CITY.
IT WOULD BE THE EQUIVALENT OF
SAY FOG ONE IN THE NEW YORK
METROPOLITAN AREA CAN GO IN OR
GO OUT.
ARE WE HEADED THAT WAY?
>> I DON'T THINK WE COULD EVER
DO WHAT THEY DID IN CHINA.
IN ORDER FOR QUARANTINES LIKE
THAT TO WORK, FIRST OF ALL, YOU
HAVE TO DO IT EARLY, YOU HAVE TO
BE VERY CONSISTENT, AND EVERYONE
HAS TO BE SUPER HONEST ABOUT
THIS.
IN CHINA, IT WAS MANDATED.
IT'S A DIFFERENT RULE OF LAW
THERE.
EVERYONE TALKS ABOUT THIS -- THE
AUTOCRACY AND WHAT THAT REALLY
MEANS WHEN IT COMES TO
GOVERNMENT, AND, IN MANY WAYS,
THERE'S A LOT OF NEGATIVES, BUT
WITH THIS PARTICULAR SITUATION,
THEY WERE ABLE TO DO SOMETHING
THAT I DON'T THINK CAN BE DONE
IN HARDLY ANY TO HAVE THE OTHER
PLACES IN THE WORLD.
BUT ONE THING I WANT TO POINT
OUT, THEY'RE NOT THE ONLY MODEL
OF SUCCESS.
YOU LOOK AT SINGAPORE, HONG KONG
UPTHAT BORDERS MAINLAND CHINA,
THEY HAVE HAD ABOUT 120 PATIENTS
DIAGNOSED.
BUT A LOT OF THINGS CAN BE DONE
BUT THEY HAVE TO BE DONE EARLY.
TALL MEASURES IN TERMS OF SOCIAL
DISTANCING CAN HAVE A REAL
IMPACT THEN.
>> Stephen: IF YOU CAN STICK
AROUND FOR ONE MORE ACT, WE HAVE
TO TAKE ANOTHER COMMERCIAL
BREAK, BUT COME BACK BECAUSE
WE'LL HAVE MORE OF DR. SANJAY
GUPTA TALKING ABOUT CORONAVIRUS,
FACT VERSUS FICTION.
STICK AROUND.